There's one more major topic to discuss before closing out
this lesson and that's Ethics and Experimentation.
Even if you have the rest of your studies designed figured out,
you should not run it until you've gone through it and
checked out any ethical issues in the design.
Briefly there are four main principles to consider.
First and foremost, consider the risks
to users for their participation in the experiment.
As a researcher, you have an obligation to
minimize the potential harm exposed to a participant.
It's important to remember that emotional distress is also a form of harm.
In 2014, a Facebook's study manipulated the content of
users' News Feeds to see how it affected their posting patterns.
Some users saw slightly more positive posts
and some users saw slightly more negative posts.
The study violated the principle of minimizing harm,
since it was not clear how severe the effects the manipulation
would have on users mental or emotional states.
Secondly, you should consider the benefits of the experiment,
especially relative to the possible harms to the study participants.
The Facebook's study was also in violation of this principle,
since there wasn't a clear benefit for
the research that the experiment was driving towards.
If there is possibility for harm,
it needs to be clear that the benefits are worth the risks taken.